# Relay Estimator

Relay Estimator is a project estimating tool designed with freelance developers & designers in mind. Users are able to setup/edit projects and specific tasks for each project, and are provided cost estimate summarys to potential clients. Please visit the deployed link and take it for a test drive.

## Technologies 
React, HTML5, CSS, React-Bootstrap, Javascript ES6, Node.js, MongoDB, Express, RESTful API's, ChartJS, Firebase Authentication

## Deployed URL: https://salty-reef-43633.herokuapp.com/
* If You do not wish to register to test the application, the following credentials may be used:
 Username: test@test.com
 Password: test123
 
## Getting Start
  1. New User
  2. Established User
    1. Create a new project
    2. Create new tasks
    3. Edit Tasks
    4. View a Project
    
## New User
 * As a first time user, you will need to register to begin using the application.
 * Navigate to the top right of the screen and select Sign Up to begin the process.
 * After clicking the sign up button, you will be presented a form that will prompt you to enter your name, email address and to select a password.
 * Once the forms are completed, click register to be logged in and redirected to the homepage.

## Established User
  * Navigate to the top right of the screen and click the sign in button.
    *If you have logged in and been active within the past 24 hours, Firebase Authentication will persist your login.
  * Enter your username and password into the form and click "sign in."
  * You will be redirected to the projects page which will display all current projects you have.
  
### Create a New Project
   * To create a new project, click the "+ project" button in the top left.
   * A new blank project will be added to the page, with a form left blank for a title.
   * Add a title to the project and click "save".
   * The project will be added to the list of your current projects.

 ### Delete a Project
  * Navigate to the projects page.
  * Hover over the project that is going to be deleted.
  * Click the delete button to delete the project.
  
### Create New Tasks
   * Begin creating new tasks by selecting the project you want to add tasks to from the project screen and clicking the edit button that appears on hover.
   * You will be redirected to the tasks page.
   * Click on the "+ task" button to add a task.
   * Once the fields on the new task form have been modified, a green arrow with a checkmark will appear in the lower right corner of the task row. Click the checkmark to save the task.

 
### Edit a Task
   * Edit a task by navigating to the tasks screen. 
   * All the tasks on this screen will be displayed as forms.
   * Begin editing a task by changing the text in the populated forms.
   * Once a change has been made, the trash can icon in the lower right corner will change to a checkmark. 
   * Click the check mark to save the changes.
   * The icon will change back to a trash can and the changes will have been successfully saved.
   
### Delete a Task
   * Delete a task by navigating to the tasks screen.
   * Locate the task that is going to be delted.
   * Click on the trash can icon in the lower right corner to delete the task.
   
### View an Estimate
 * If you are on the projects page, hover over the project you want to view and click the "view" button.
 * If you are on the tasks page, click the "View Estimate" button.
 * You will now be viewing the estimate for your project.
 * The totals of all the tasks you have carried in your estimate will be displayed at the chart.
 * Each task with a summary of hours and rate will be displayed on the left hand side of the page.
 * The chart on the right hand side of the page is generated by the tasks and is color coded to show where the largest spending items are.
 

### Future Improvements

* Adding a 3rd party email service such as Sendgrid for "Forget Password" and other authentication capabilities and emailing the client the estimate.
* Adding a print to pdf functionality and button. This applies to emailing the client an estimate above.
* Responsiveness updates, including collapsing navbar items and chart display.
* Adding description fields to tasks and projects to incorporate additional information.
